docs/docs/overview/architecture.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Architecture
description: Controller, webhook, and agent architecture overview.
---

# Architecture

Stoker uses a **controller + agent sidecar** architecture. The controller runs as a Deployment, while each gateway pod gets an agent sidecar injected automatically. There is no shared storage — all communication flows through ConfigMaps.

## Components

Stoker has three components that run inside the controller manager pod, plus the agent sidecar that gets injected into each gateway pod:

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    subgraph stoker-system
        CTRL[Controller]
        WH[Mutating Webhook]
        RX[Webhook Receiver]
    end

    subgraph Each Gateway Pod
        AG[Agent Sidecar]
        GW[Ignition Gateway]
    end

    CTRL -. "ConfigMaps" .-> AG
    AG -. "ConfigMaps" .-> CTRL
    WH -- "injects on pod create" --> AG
```

### Controller

The controller reconciles `GatewaySync` custom resources. On each reconciliation it:

1. **Resolves the Git ref** — calls `git ls-remote` to translate a branch or tag name to a commit SHA. This requires no clone and no persistent storage.
2. **Discovers gateway pods** — finds pods in the same namespace with the `stoker.io/cr-name` annotation matching this CR.
3. **Writes metadata ConfigMaps** — writes the resolved ref, commit, auth type, mappings, and profile configuration to `stoker-metadata-{crName}`.
4. **Aggregates status** — reads `stoker-status-{crName}` ConfigMaps written by agents and surfaces per-gateway sync status on the CR.

When `rbac.autoBindAgent.enabled` is true (default), the controller also creates a `RoleBinding` in the CR's namespace binding discovered gateway ServiceAccounts to the `stoker-agent` ClusterRole. The binding uses an `ownerReference` pointing to the GatewaySync CR, so it is automatically garbage-collected when the CR is deleted.

The controller uses a custom predicate that triggers reconciliation on spec generation changes _or_ annotation changes (used by the webhook receiver to request immediate syncs).

### Mutating webhook

The webhook intercepts pod creation and injects the agent as a **native sidecar** — an init container with `restartPolicy: Always` (requires Kubernetes 1.28+). Injection requires one condition:

1. **Pod annotation:** `stoker.io/inject: "true"`

Optionally, the `stoker.io/injection=enabled` namespace label can be required by setting `webhook.namespaceSelector.requireLabel=true` in the Helm values. This is useful for regulated environments that need explicit namespace opt-in.

The agent image is resolved in three tiers: pod annotation `stoker.io/agent-image` > CR field `spec.agent.image` > environment variable `DEFAULT_AGENT_IMAGE`.

### Sync agent

The agent runs as a sidecar inside each gateway pod. It operates on a poll loop:

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    A[Read metadata\nConfigMap] --> B[Clone/fetch\nrepo]
    B --> C[Build plan\n& stage files]
    C --> D[Merge to\nlive dir]
    D --> E[Scan\nIgnition API]
    E --> F[Write status\nConfigMap]
```

1. **Read** — reads the metadata ConfigMap to get the current ref, commit, mappings, and profile config
2. **Clone** — clones the repo to a local emptyDir at `/repo`
3. **Build plan & stage** — resolves template variables, computes file changes, copies to `/ignition-data/.sync-staging/`
4. **Merge** — moves staged files to the live `/ignition-data/` directory
5. **Clean** — removes orphaned files within managed paths only (won't touch unmanaged directories)
6. **Scan** — calls the Ignition REST API (`/scan/projects` and `/scan/config`) so the gateway reloads without restart
7. **Report** — writes sync results (commit, file counts, errors) to the status ConfigMap

#### Three-layer architecture

The agent is split into three layers to keep concerns separate:

| Layer | Package | Aware of |
|-------|---------|----------|
| **Sync engine** | `internal/syncengine` | File operations only — takes a plan, copies files |
| **Agent orchestrator** | `internal/agent` | Kubernetes (reads ConfigMaps, writes status, emits events) |
| **Ignition client** | `internal/ignition` | Ignition API (scan endpoints, health check, designer sessions) |

The sync engine is intentionally Kubernetes-unaware and Ignition-unaware, making it testable in isolation.

## Communication via ConfigMaps

The controller and agents never communicate directly. All state flows through three ConfigMaps per CR:

| ConfigMap | Writer | Reader | Contents |
|-----------|--------|--------|----------|
| `stoker-metadata-{crName}` | Controller | Agent | Git URL, resolved commit, ref, auth type, exclude patterns, profile mappings |
| `stoker-status-{crName}` | Agent | Controller | Per-gateway sync status, synced commit, file counts, errors, change details |

This design means no shared PVC is needed, and agents can run in any pod without special volume configuration beyond the standard `/ignition-data/` mount.

## Webhook receiver

The controller runs an HTTP server on port 9444 that accepts push-event webhooks:

```
POST /webhook/{namespace}/{crName}
```

It auto-detects the payload format (GitHub, ArgoCD, Kargo, or generic `{"ref": "..."}`) and annotates the GatewaySync CR with the requested ref. The controller's reconciliation predicate picks up the annotation change and triggers an immediate sync.

HMAC signature validation via `X-Hub-Signature-256` is supported when configured.

## Next steps

- [Quickstart](../quickstart.md) — get started with a working example
- [Git Authentication](../guides/git-authentication.md) — set up auth for private repos
- [GatewaySync CR Reference](../reference/gatewaysync-cr.md) — full spec reference

Commit message:

add GitHub App auth, fix defaults, and disable webhook receiver by default (#76)
* add GitHub App authentication with controller-mediated token exchange

- Controller exchanges PEM for short-lived installation token via GitHub API
- Token cached per appID:installationID with 5-min pre-expiry refresh
- Token delivered to agent via metadata ConfigMap (PEM never leaves controller)
- Agent reads gitToken from ConfigMap, refreshes on each sync trigger
- Webhook skips git-credentials volume mount for GitHubApp auth
- apiBaseURL field for GitHub Enterprise Server support
- GitHubAppExchangeFailed condition reason for troubleshooting

* fix defaults and disable webhook receiver by default

- Change CRD gateway defaults to port 8088 / tls false (matches Ignition defaults)
- Add webhookReceiver.enabled: false with conditional Service, port, and HMAC env
- Create missing webhook-receiver-service.yaml template
- Fix agent secret volume mode 0400 → 0444 for nonroot uid
- Update docs, quickstart, e2e tests, and chart README

---------

Co-authored-by: Eric Knorr <eknorr@ia.io>

docs/docs/overview/architecture.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Architecture
description: Controller, webhook, and agent architecture overview.
---

# Architecture

Stoker uses a **controller + agent sidecar** architecture. The controller runs as a Deployment, while each gateway pod gets an agent sidecar injected automatically. There is no shared storage — all communication flows through ConfigMaps.

## Components

Stoker has three components that run inside the controller manager pod, plus the agent sidecar that gets injected into each gateway pod:

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    subgraph stoker-system
        CTRL[Controller]
        WH[Mutating Webhook]
        RX[Webhook Receiver]
    end

    subgraph Each Gateway Pod
        AG[Agent Sidecar]
        GW[Ignition Gateway]
    end

    CTRL -. "ConfigMaps" .-> AG
    AG -. "ConfigMaps" .-> CTRL
    WH -- "injects on pod create" --> AG
```

### Controller

The controller reconciles `GatewaySync` custom resources. On each reconciliation it:

1. **Resolves the Git ref** — calls `git ls-remote` to translate a branch or tag name to a commit SHA. This requires no clone and no persistent storage.
2. **Discovers gateway pods** — finds pods in the same namespace with the `stoker.io/cr-name` annotation matching this CR.
3. **Writes metadata ConfigMaps** — writes the resolved ref, commit, auth type, mappings, and profile configuration to `stoker-metadata-{crName}`.
4. **Aggregates status** — reads `stoker-status-{crName}` ConfigMaps written by agents and surfaces per-gateway sync status on the CR.

When `rbac.autoBindAgent.enabled` is true (default), the controller also creates a `RoleBinding` in the CR's namespace binding discovered gateway ServiceAccounts to the `stoker-agent` ClusterRole. The binding uses an `ownerReference` pointing to the GatewaySync CR, so it is automatically garbage-collected when the CR is deleted.

The controller uses a custom predicate that triggers reconciliation on spec generation changes _or_ annotation changes (used by the webhook receiver to request immediate syncs).

### Mutating webhook

The webhook intercepts pod creation and injects the agent as a **native sidecar** — an init container with `restartPolicy: Always` (requires Kubernetes 1.28+). Injection requires one condition:

1. **Pod annotation:** `stoker.io/inject: "true"`

Optionally, the `stoker.io/injection=enabled` namespace label can be required by setting `webhook.namespaceSelector.requireLabel=true` in the Helm values. This is useful for regulated environments that need explicit namespace opt-in.

The agent image is resolved in three tiers: pod annotation `stoker.io/agent-image` > CR field `spec.agent.image` > environment variable `DEFAULT_AGENT_IMAGE`.

### Sync agent

The agent runs as a sidecar inside each gateway pod. It operates on a poll loop:

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    A[Read metadata\nConfigMap] --> B[Clone/fetch\nrepo]
    B --> C[Build plan\n& stage files]
    C --> D[Merge to\nlive dir]
    D --> E[Scan\nIgnition API]
    E --> F[Write status\nConfigMap]
```

1. **Read** — reads the metadata ConfigMap to get the current ref, commit, mappings, and profile config
2. **Clone** — clones the repo to a local emptyDir at `/repo`
3. **Build plan & stage** — resolves template variables, computes file changes, copies to `/ignition-data/.sync-staging/`
4. **Merge** — moves staged files to the live `/ignition-data/` directory
5. **Clean** — removes orphaned files within managed paths only (won't touch unmanaged directories)
6. **Scan** — calls the Ignition REST API (`/scan/projects` and `/scan/config`) so the gateway reloads without restart
7. **Report** — writes sync results (commit, file counts, errors) to the status ConfigMap

#### Three-layer architecture

The agent is split into three layers to keep concerns separate:

| Layer | Package | Aware of |
|-------|---------|----------|
| **Sync engine** | `internal/syncengine` | File operations only — takes a plan, copies files |
| **Agent orchestrator** | `internal/agent` | Kubernetes (reads ConfigMaps, writes status, emits events) |
| **Ignition client** | `internal/ignition` | Ignition API (scan endpoints, health check, designer sessions) |

The sync engine is intentionally Kubernetes-unaware and Ignition-unaware, making it testable in isolation.

## Communication via ConfigMaps

The controller and agents never communicate directly. All state flows through three ConfigMaps per CR:

| ConfigMap | Writer | Reader | Contents |
|-----------|--------|--------|----------|
| `stoker-metadata-{crName}` | Controller | Agent | Git URL, resolved commit, ref, auth type, exclude patterns, profile mappings |
| `stoker-status-{crName}` | Agent | Controller | Per-gateway sync status, synced commit, file counts, errors, change details |

This design means no shared PVC is needed, and agents can run in any pod without special volume configuration beyond the standard `/ignition-data/` mount.

## Webhook receiver

The controller can optionally run an HTTP server on port 9444 that accepts push-event webhooks. The receiver is **disabled by default** — enable it with `webhookReceiver.enabled: true` in the Helm values.

```
POST /webhook/{namespace}/{crName}
```

It auto-detects the payload format (GitHub, ArgoCD, Kargo, or generic `{"ref": "..."}`) and annotates the GatewaySync CR with the requested ref. The controller's reconciliation predicate picks up the annotation change and triggers an immediate sync.

HMAC signature validation via `X-Hub-Signature-256` is supported when configured.

## Next steps

- [Quickstart](../quickstart.md) — get started with a working example
- [Git Authentication](../guides/git-authentication.md) — set up auth for private repos
- [GatewaySync CR Reference](../reference/gatewaysync-cr.md) — full spec reference
