docs/docs/reference/gatewaysync-cr.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /reference/gatewaysync-cr
title: GatewaySync CR
description: Full reference for the GatewaySync custom resource.
---

# GatewaySync CR Reference

The `GatewaySync` custom resource defines the git repository to sync from, authentication, polling behavior, gateway connection settings, sync profiles, and agent configuration.

```yaml
apiVersion: stoker.io/v1alpha1
kind: GatewaySync
metadata:
  name: my-gatewaysync
  namespace: my-namespace
spec:
  git:
    repo: "https://github.com/org/repo.git"
    ref: "main"
    auth:
      token:
        secretRef:
          name: git-token
          key: token
  polling:
    enabled: true
    interval: "60s"
  gateway:
    port: 8043
    tls: true
    apiKeySecretRef:
      name: gw-api-key
      key: apiKey
  sync:
    defaults:
      excludePatterns:
        - "**/.git/"
        - "**/.gitkeep"
        - "**/.resources/**"
      syncPeriod: 30
      designerSessionPolicy: proceed
    profiles:
      standard:
        mappings:
          - source: "services/{{.GatewayName}}/projects/"
            destination: "projects/"
            type: dir
            required: true
          - source: "services/{{.GatewayName}}/config/"
            destination: "config/"
            type: dir
        syncPeriod: 60
        designerSessionPolicy: wait
  agent:
    image:
      repository: ghcr.io/ia-eknorr/stoker-agent
      tag: latest
      pullPolicy: IfNotPresent
  paused: false
```

## `spec.git`

| Field | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `repo` | string | Yes | — | Git repository URL (SSH or HTTPS) |
| `ref` | string | Yes | — | Git reference to sync — branch, tag, or commit SHA |
| `auth` | object | No | — | Git authentication configuration |

### `spec.git.auth`

Exactly one authentication method should be specified. Omit entirely for public repositories.

#### Token authentication

```yaml
auth:
  token:
    secretRef:
      name: git-token
      key: token
```

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `token.secretRef.name` | string | Yes | Name of the Secret |
| `token.secretRef.key` | string | Yes | Key within the Secret |

#### SSH key authentication

```yaml
auth:
  sshKey:
    secretRef:
      name: ssh-key
      key: id_ed25519
```

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `sshKey.secretRef.name` | string | Yes | Name of the Secret containing the SSH private key |
| `sshKey.secretRef.key` | string | Yes | Key within the Secret |

#### GitHub App authentication

```yaml
auth:
  githubApp:
    appId: 12345
    installationId: 67890
    privateKeySecretRef:
      name: github-app-key
      key: private-key.pem
```

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `githubApp.appId` | integer | Yes | GitHub App ID |
| `githubApp.installationId` | integer | Yes | GitHub App installation ID |
| `githubApp.privateKeySecretRef.name` | string | Yes | Name of the Secret containing the PEM key |
| `githubApp.privateKeySecretRef.key` | string | Yes | Key within the Secret |

## `spec.polling`

| Field | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `enabled` | bool | No | `true` | Whether periodic polling for git changes is active |
| `interval` | string | No | `"60s"` | Polling period (e.g., `"60s"`, `"5m"`) |

:::tip
If you configure a [webhook receiver](/reference/helm-values#push-receiver-webhook) for push-event-driven sync, you can set `polling.enabled: false` or increase the interval to reduce API calls.
:::

## `spec.gateway`

| Field | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `port` | int32 | No | `8043` | Ignition gateway API port |
| `tls` | bool | No | `true` | Enable TLS for gateway API connections |
| `apiKeySecretRef.name` | string | Yes | — | Name of the Secret containing the Ignition API key |
| `apiKeySecretRef.key` | string | Yes | — | Key within the Secret |

## `spec.sync`

The `sync` section contains baseline defaults and named profiles.

### `spec.sync.defaults`

Baseline settings inherited by all profiles. Individual profiles can override these values.

| Field | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `excludePatterns` | []string | No | `["**/.git/", "**/.gitkeep", "**/.resources/**"]` | Glob patterns for files to exclude from sync |
| `syncPeriod` | int32 | No | `30` | Agent-side polling interval in seconds (min: 5, max: 3600) |
| `designerSessionPolicy` | string | No | `"proceed"` | Behavior when Designer sessions are active: `proceed`, `wait`, or `fail` |
| `dryRun` | bool | No | `false` | Sync to staging only — write diff to status ConfigMap without modifying `/ignition-data/` |
| `paused` | bool | No | `false` | Halt sync for all profiles |

The `**/.resources/**` pattern is always enforced by the agent even if omitted from `excludePatterns`.

### `spec.sync.profiles`

A map of named sync profiles. Each key is the profile name, referenced by the `stoker.io/profile` pod annotation. Gateways without a `stoker.io/profile` annotation use the profile named `default` if one exists.

```yaml
sync:
  profiles:
    standard:
      mappings:
        - source: "services/{{.GatewayName}}/projects/"
          destination: "projects/"
          type: dir
          required: true
      syncPeriod: 60
    minimal:
      mappings:
        - source: "config/"
          destination: "config/"
          type: dir
```

Each profile supports the following fields:

| Field | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `mappings` | []object | Yes | — | Ordered list of source-to-destination file mappings |
| `excludePatterns` | []string | No | — | Additional glob patterns merged with `spec.sync.defaults.excludePatterns` |
| `vars` | map[string]string | No | — | Custom template variables available as `{{.Vars.key}}` |
| `syncPeriod` | int32 | No | inherited | Overrides `spec.sync.defaults.syncPeriod` |
| `dryRun` | bool | No | inherited | Overrides `spec.sync.defaults.dryRun` |
| `designerSessionPolicy` | string | No | inherited | Overrides `spec.sync.defaults.designerSessionPolicy` |
| `paused` | bool | No | inherited | Overrides `spec.sync.defaults.paused` |

#### Mappings

An ordered list of source-to-destination file mappings. Applied top to bottom; later mappings overlay earlier ones.

| Field | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `source` | string | Yes | — | Repo-relative path to copy from |
| `destination` | string | Yes | — | Gateway-relative path to copy to |
| `type` | string | No | `"dir"` | Entry type — `"dir"` or `"file"` |
| `required` | bool | No | `false` | Fail sync if the source path doesn't exist |

#### Template variables

Both `source` and `destination` support Go template variables:

| Variable | Description | Example |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `{{.GatewayName}}` | Gateway identity from the `stoker.io/gateway-name` annotation (or `app.kubernetes.io/name` label) | `sites/{{.GatewayName}}/projects` |
| `{{.CRName}}` | Name of the GatewaySync CR that owns this sync | `config/{{.CRName}}/resources` |
| `{{.Labels.key}}` | Any label on the gateway pod (read at sync time) | `sites/{{.Labels.site}}/projects` |
| `{{.Vars.key}}` | Custom variable from profile `vars` | `site{{.Vars.siteNumber}}/scripts` |
| `{{.Namespace}}` | Pod namespace | `config/{{.Namespace}}/overlay` |
| `{{.Ref}}` | Resolved git ref | — |
| `{{.Commit}}` | Full commit SHA | — |

Using `{{.GatewayName}}` or `{{.Labels.key}}` in source paths lets a single profile serve multiple gateways, each syncing from its own directory in the repo.

##### Example: label-based routing

Add a `site` label to each gateway pod and use it in the profile:

```yaml
sync:
  profiles:
    standard:
      mappings:
        - source: "services/{{.Labels.site}}/projects/"
          destination: "projects/"
          type: dir
          required: true
        - source: "services/{{.Labels.site}}/config/"
          destination: "config/"
          type: dir
```

A pod with label `site: ignition-blue` syncs from `services/ignition-blue/`, while `site: ignition-red` syncs from `services/ignition-red/` — same profile, different files.

:::note
`{{.Labels.key}}` reads from the pod's Kubernetes labels at sync time. The agent needs `get` permission on pods (included in the agent ClusterRole).
:::

#### Designer session policy

Controls sync behavior when Ignition Designer sessions are active on the gateway. Can be set at the defaults level or overridden per profile.

| Value | Behavior |
|-------|----------|
| `proceed` (default) | Logs a warning and continues the sync |
| `wait` | Retries until sessions close (up to 5 minutes) |
| `fail` | Aborts the sync |

## `spec.agent`

| Field | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `image.repository` | string | No | `ghcr.io/ia-eknorr/stoker-agent` | Agent container image repository |
| `image.tag` | string | No | `latest` | Agent container image tag |
| `image.pullPolicy` | string | No | `IfNotPresent` | Image pull policy |
| `resources` | object | No | — | Agent container resource requirements |

## `spec.paused`

When set to `true`, halts all sync operations. The controller continues to reconcile and resolve refs, but agents will not perform syncs.

## Pod Annotations

Gateways are discovered by pod annotations. These are typically set via `podAnnotations` in the Ignition Helm chart values:

| Annotation | Required | Description |
|---|---|---|
| `stoker.io/inject` | Yes | Set to `"true"` to trigger sidecar injection |
| `stoker.io/cr-name` | Yes | Name of the GatewaySync CR to sync from |
| `stoker.io/profile` | No | Name of the sync profile to use (from `spec.sync.profiles`). Falls back to `default` if unset. |
| `stoker.io/gateway-name` | No | Override gateway identity (defaults to pod label `app.kubernetes.io/name`) |

## Status

The GatewaySync CR status is managed by the controller and reports:

| Field | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| `lastSyncRef` | The git ref that was last resolved |
| `lastSyncCommit` | Full 40-character git commit SHA |
| `lastSyncCommitShort` | Abbreviated 7-character commit SHA (used in printer columns) |
| `lastSyncTime` | Timestamp of the last commit change (only updates when the resolved commit changes) |
| `refResolutionStatus` | `NotResolved`, `Resolving`, `Resolved`, or `Error` |
| `profileCount` | Number of profiles defined in `spec.sync.profiles` |
| `discoveredGateways` | List of gateway pods with per-gateway sync status, commit, projects synced |
| `conditions` | Standard Kubernetes conditions: `RefResolved`, `AllGatewaysSynced`, and `Ready` |

### Printer columns

`kubectl get gs` shows these columns by default:

```text
NAME         REF    COMMIT    PROFILES   SYNCED   GATEWAYS             READY   AGE
my-gateway   main   4d19160   1          True     1/1 gateways synced  True    5m
```

`kubectl get gs -o wide` adds `LAST SYNC` (relative time since last commit change).

### Sync status lifecycle

Gateways progress through these sync states:

1. **Pending** — initial sync completes (files written) but gateway hasn't been validated yet
2. **Synced** — the Ignition scan API confirmed both `/scan/projects` and `/scan/config` returned HTTP 200
3. **Error** — the scan API returned a non-200 status or was unreachable

The `AllGatewaysSynced` condition is `True` only when all discovered gateways report `Synced`.

### Conditions

| Type | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `RefResolved` | The controller successfully resolved the git ref to a commit SHA |
| `ProfilesValid` | All embedded profiles pass validation (no path traversal, no absolute paths) |
| `AllGatewaysSynced` | All discovered gateway pods report `Synced` status |
| `SidecarInjected` | All discovered gateway pods have the stoker-agent sidecar container |
| `Ready` | `RefResolved`, `ProfilesValid`, and `AllGatewaysSynced` are all `True` |

Commit message:

add GitHub App authentication with controller-mediated token exchange
- Controller exchanges PEM for short-lived installation token via GitHub API
- Token cached per appID:installationID with 5-min pre-expiry refresh
- Token delivered to agent via metadata ConfigMap (PEM never leaves controller)
- Agent reads gitToken from ConfigMap, refreshes on each sync trigger
- Webhook skips git-credentials volume mount for GitHubApp auth
- apiBaseURL field for GitHub Enterprise Server support
- GitHubAppExchangeFailed condition reason for troubleshooting

docs/docs/reference/gatewaysync-cr.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /reference/gatewaysync-cr
title: GatewaySync CR
description: Full reference for the GatewaySync custom resource.
---

# GatewaySync CR Reference

The `GatewaySync` custom resource defines the git repository to sync from, authentication, polling behavior, gateway connection settings, sync profiles, and agent configuration.

```yaml
apiVersion: stoker.io/v1alpha1
kind: GatewaySync
metadata:
  name: my-gatewaysync
  namespace: my-namespace
spec:
  git:
    repo: "https://github.com/org/repo.git"
    ref: "main"
    auth:
      token:
        secretRef:
          name: git-token
          key: token
  polling:
    enabled: true
    interval: "60s"
  gateway:
    port: 8043
    tls: true
    apiKeySecretRef:
      name: gw-api-key
      key: apiKey
  sync:
    defaults:
      excludePatterns:
        - "**/.git/"
        - "**/.gitkeep"
        - "**/.resources/**"
      syncPeriod: 30
      designerSessionPolicy: proceed
    profiles:
      standard:
        mappings:
          - source: "services/{{.GatewayName}}/projects/"
            destination: "projects/"
            type: dir
            required: true
          - source: "services/{{.GatewayName}}/config/"
            destination: "config/"
            type: dir
        syncPeriod: 60
        designerSessionPolicy: wait
  agent:
    image:
      repository: ghcr.io/ia-eknorr/stoker-agent
      tag: latest
      pullPolicy: IfNotPresent
  paused: false
```

## `spec.git`

| Field | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `repo` | string | Yes | — | Git repository URL (SSH or HTTPS) |
| `ref` | string | Yes | — | Git reference to sync — branch, tag, or commit SHA |
| `auth` | object | No | — | Git authentication configuration |

### `spec.git.auth`

Exactly one authentication method should be specified. Omit entirely for public repositories.

#### Token authentication

```yaml
auth:
  token:
    secretRef:
      name: git-token
      key: token
```

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `token.secretRef.name` | string | Yes | Name of the Secret |
| `token.secretRef.key` | string | Yes | Key within the Secret |

#### SSH key authentication

```yaml
auth:
  sshKey:
    secretRef:
      name: ssh-key
      key: id_ed25519
```

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `sshKey.secretRef.name` | string | Yes | Name of the Secret containing the SSH private key |
| `sshKey.secretRef.key` | string | Yes | Key within the Secret |

#### GitHub App authentication

```yaml
auth:
  githubApp:
    appId: 12345
    installationId: 67890
    privateKeySecretRef:
      name: github-app-key
      key: private-key.pem
    apiBaseURL: "https://github.example.com/api/v3"  # optional, for GitHub Enterprise
```

| Field | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `githubApp.appId` | integer | Yes | — | GitHub App ID |
| `githubApp.installationId` | integer | Yes | — | GitHub App installation ID |
| `githubApp.privateKeySecretRef.name` | string | Yes | — | Name of the Secret containing the PEM key |
| `githubApp.privateKeySecretRef.key` | string | Yes | — | Key within the Secret |
| `githubApp.apiBaseURL` | string | No | `https://api.github.com` | GitHub API base URL (set for GitHub Enterprise Server) |

The controller exchanges the PEM private key for a short-lived installation access token (1-hour expiry), caches it with a 5-minute pre-expiry refresh, and delivers it to the agent via the metadata ConfigMap. The PEM key never leaves the controller namespace — agent pods do not mount the PEM secret.

## `spec.polling`

| Field | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `enabled` | bool | No | `true` | Whether periodic polling for git changes is active |
| `interval` | string | No | `"60s"` | Polling period (e.g., `"60s"`, `"5m"`) |

:::tip
If you configure a [webhook receiver](/reference/helm-values#push-receiver-webhook) for push-event-driven sync, you can set `polling.enabled: false` or increase the interval to reduce API calls.
:::

## `spec.gateway`

| Field | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `port` | int32 | No | `8043` | Ignition gateway API port |
| `tls` | bool | No | `true` | Enable TLS for gateway API connections |
| `apiKeySecretRef.name` | string | Yes | — | Name of the Secret containing the Ignition API key |
| `apiKeySecretRef.key` | string | Yes | — | Key within the Secret |

## `spec.sync`

The `sync` section contains baseline defaults and named profiles.

### `spec.sync.defaults`

Baseline settings inherited by all profiles. Individual profiles can override these values.

| Field | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `excludePatterns` | []string | No | `["**/.git/", "**/.gitkeep", "**/.resources/**"]` | Glob patterns for files to exclude from sync |
| `syncPeriod` | int32 | No | `30` | Agent-side polling interval in seconds (min: 5, max: 3600) |
| `designerSessionPolicy` | string | No | `"proceed"` | Behavior when Designer sessions are active: `proceed`, `wait`, or `fail` |
| `dryRun` | bool | No | `false` | Sync to staging only — write diff to status ConfigMap without modifying `/ignition-data/` |
| `paused` | bool | No | `false` | Halt sync for all profiles |

The `**/.resources/**` pattern is always enforced by the agent even if omitted from `excludePatterns`.

### `spec.sync.profiles`

A map of named sync profiles. Each key is the profile name, referenced by the `stoker.io/profile` pod annotation. Gateways without a `stoker.io/profile` annotation use the profile named `default` if one exists.

```yaml
sync:
  profiles:
    standard:
      mappings:
        - source: "services/{{.GatewayName}}/projects/"
          destination: "projects/"
          type: dir
          required: true
      syncPeriod: 60
    minimal:
      mappings:
        - source: "config/"
          destination: "config/"
          type: dir
```

Each profile supports the following fields:

| Field | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `mappings` | []object | Yes | — | Ordered list of source-to-destination file mappings |
| `excludePatterns` | []string | No | — | Additional glob patterns merged with `spec.sync.defaults.excludePatterns` |
| `vars` | map[string]string | No | — | Custom template variables available as `{{.Vars.key}}` |
| `syncPeriod` | int32 | No | inherited | Overrides `spec.sync.defaults.syncPeriod` |
| `dryRun` | bool | No | inherited | Overrides `spec.sync.defaults.dryRun` |
| `designerSessionPolicy` | string | No | inherited | Overrides `spec.sync.defaults.designerSessionPolicy` |
| `paused` | bool | No | inherited | Overrides `spec.sync.defaults.paused` |

#### Mappings

An ordered list of source-to-destination file mappings. Applied top to bottom; later mappings overlay earlier ones.

| Field | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `source` | string | Yes | — | Repo-relative path to copy from |
| `destination` | string | Yes | — | Gateway-relative path to copy to |
| `type` | string | No | `"dir"` | Entry type — `"dir"` or `"file"` |
| `required` | bool | No | `false` | Fail sync if the source path doesn't exist |

#### Template variables

Both `source` and `destination` support Go template variables:

| Variable | Description | Example |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `{{.GatewayName}}` | Gateway identity from the `stoker.io/gateway-name` annotation (or `app.kubernetes.io/name` label) | `sites/{{.GatewayName}}/projects` |
| `{{.CRName}}` | Name of the GatewaySync CR that owns this sync | `config/{{.CRName}}/resources` |
| `{{.Labels.key}}` | Any label on the gateway pod (read at sync time) | `sites/{{.Labels.site}}/projects` |
| `{{.Vars.key}}` | Custom variable from profile `vars` | `site{{.Vars.siteNumber}}/scripts` |
| `{{.Namespace}}` | Pod namespace | `config/{{.Namespace}}/overlay` |
| `{{.Ref}}` | Resolved git ref | — |
| `{{.Commit}}` | Full commit SHA | — |

Using `{{.GatewayName}}` or `{{.Labels.key}}` in source paths lets a single profile serve multiple gateways, each syncing from its own directory in the repo.

##### Example: label-based routing

Add a `site` label to each gateway pod and use it in the profile:

```yaml
sync:
  profiles:
    standard:
      mappings:
        - source: "services/{{.Labels.site}}/projects/"
          destination: "projects/"
          type: dir
          required: true
        - source: "services/{{.Labels.site}}/config/"
          destination: "config/"
          type: dir
```

A pod with label `site: ignition-blue` syncs from `services/ignition-blue/`, while `site: ignition-red` syncs from `services/ignition-red/` — same profile, different files.

:::note
`{{.Labels.key}}` reads from the pod's Kubernetes labels at sync time. The agent needs `get` permission on pods (included in the agent ClusterRole).
:::

#### Designer session policy

Controls sync behavior when Ignition Designer sessions are active on the gateway. Can be set at the defaults level or overridden per profile.

| Value | Behavior |
|-------|----------|
| `proceed` (default) | Logs a warning and continues the sync |
| `wait` | Retries until sessions close (up to 5 minutes) |
| `fail` | Aborts the sync |

## `spec.agent`

| Field | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `image.repository` | string | No | `ghcr.io/ia-eknorr/stoker-agent` | Agent container image repository |
| `image.tag` | string | No | `latest` | Agent container image tag |
| `image.pullPolicy` | string | No | `IfNotPresent` | Image pull policy |
| `resources` | object | No | — | Agent container resource requirements |

## `spec.paused`

When set to `true`, halts all sync operations. The controller continues to reconcile and resolve refs, but agents will not perform syncs.

## Pod Annotations

Gateways are discovered by pod annotations. These are typically set via `podAnnotations` in the Ignition Helm chart values:

| Annotation | Required | Description |
|---|---|---|
| `stoker.io/inject` | Yes | Set to `"true"` to trigger sidecar injection |
| `stoker.io/cr-name` | Yes | Name of the GatewaySync CR to sync from |
| `stoker.io/profile` | No | Name of the sync profile to use (from `spec.sync.profiles`). Falls back to `default` if unset. |
| `stoker.io/gateway-name` | No | Override gateway identity (defaults to pod label `app.kubernetes.io/name`) |

## Status

The GatewaySync CR status is managed by the controller and reports:

| Field | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| `lastSyncRef` | The git ref that was last resolved |
| `lastSyncCommit` | Full 40-character git commit SHA |
| `lastSyncCommitShort` | Abbreviated 7-character commit SHA (used in printer columns) |
| `lastSyncTime` | Timestamp of the last commit change (only updates when the resolved commit changes) |
| `refResolutionStatus` | `NotResolved`, `Resolving`, `Resolved`, or `Error` |
| `profileCount` | Number of profiles defined in `spec.sync.profiles` |
| `discoveredGateways` | List of gateway pods with per-gateway sync status, commit, projects synced |
| `conditions` | Standard Kubernetes conditions: `RefResolved`, `AllGatewaysSynced`, and `Ready` |

### Printer columns

`kubectl get gs` shows these columns by default:

```text
NAME         REF    COMMIT    PROFILES   SYNCED   GATEWAYS             READY   AGE
my-gateway   main   4d19160   1          True     1/1 gateways synced  True    5m
```

`kubectl get gs -o wide` adds `LAST SYNC` (relative time since last commit change).

### Sync status lifecycle

Gateways progress through these sync states:

1. **Pending** — initial sync completes (files written) but gateway hasn't been validated yet
2. **Synced** — the Ignition scan API confirmed both `/scan/projects` and `/scan/config` returned HTTP 200
3. **Error** — the scan API returned a non-200 status or was unreachable

The `AllGatewaysSynced` condition is `True` only when all discovered gateways report `Synced`.

### Conditions

| Type | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `RefResolved` | The controller successfully resolved the git ref to a commit SHA |
| `ProfilesValid` | All embedded profiles pass validation (no path traversal, no absolute paths) |
| `AllGatewaysSynced` | All discovered gateway pods report `Synced` status |
| `SidecarInjected` | All discovered gateway pods have the stoker-agent sidecar container |
| `Ready` | `RefResolved`, `ProfilesValid`, and `AllGatewaysSynced` are all `True` |
