docs/docs/guides/git-authentication.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Git Authentication
description: Configure token, SSH, or GitHub App authentication for private repositories.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Git Authentication

Stoker supports three authentication methods for private Git repositories. Public repositories need no auth configuration — just set `spec.git.repo` and `spec.git.ref`.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="token" label="Token" default>

## Token authentication

Use a personal access token (classic or fine-grained) for HTTPS repositories. This is the simplest method for GitHub, GitLab, and Bitbucket.

Create a secret containing the token:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic git-token -n <namespace> \
  --from-literal=token=ghp_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
```

Reference it in the GatewaySync CR:

```yaml
apiVersion: stoker.io/v1alpha1
kind: GatewaySync
metadata:
  name: my-sync
  namespace: my-namespace
spec:
  git:
    repo: "https://github.com/org/private-repo.git"
    ref: "main"
    auth:
      token:
        secretRef:
          name: git-token
          key: token
  # ... gateway, sync config
```

**When to use:** Quick setup, CI-generated tokens, or when SSH is blocked by network policy.

:::tip Fine-grained tokens
GitHub fine-grained tokens let you scope access to a single repository with read-only permissions. This is the recommended approach for production.
:::

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ssh" label="SSH Key">

## SSH key authentication

Use an SSH key for repositories accessed via `git@` URLs.

Generate a deploy key:

```bash
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -f stoker-deploy-key -N "" -C "stoker"
```

Add the public key (`stoker-deploy-key.pub`) as a read-only deploy key in your repository settings.

Create a secret from the private key:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic ssh-key -n <namespace> \
  --from-file=id_ed25519=stoker-deploy-key
```

Reference it in the GatewaySync CR:

```yaml
apiVersion: stoker.io/v1alpha1
kind: GatewaySync
metadata:
  name: my-sync
  namespace: my-namespace
spec:
  git:
    repo: "git@github.com:org/private-repo.git"
    ref: "main"
    auth:
      sshKey:
        secretRef:
          name: ssh-key
          key: id_ed25519
  # ... gateway, sync config
```

**When to use:** Organizations that prefer SSH-based access or need deploy keys scoped to individual repositories.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="github-app" label="GitHub App">

## GitHub App authentication

Use a GitHub App for fine-grained, organization-wide access without personal tokens.

### Setup

1. [Create a GitHub App](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps) with **Contents: Read** permission
2. Install the app on the repository (or organization)
3. Note the **App ID** and **Installation ID** from the app settings
4. Generate a private key and download the PEM file

Create a secret from the PEM key:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic github-app-key -n <namespace> \
  --from-file=private-key.pem=your-app-key.pem
```

Reference it in the GatewaySync CR:

```yaml
apiVersion: stoker.io/v1alpha1
kind: GatewaySync
metadata:
  name: my-sync
  namespace: my-namespace
spec:
  git:
    repo: "https://github.com/org/private-repo.git"
    ref: "main"
    auth:
      githubApp:
        appId: 12345
        installationId: 67890
        privateKeySecretRef:
          name: github-app-key
          key: private-key.pem
        # apiBaseURL: "https://github.example.com/api/v3"  # GitHub Enterprise only
  # ... gateway, sync config
```

**How it works:** The controller exchanges the PEM private key for a short-lived installation access token (1-hour expiry) via the GitHub API, caches it with a 5-minute pre-expiry refresh, and delivers it to the agent via the metadata ConfigMap. The PEM key never leaves the controller namespace — agent pods do not mount the PEM secret.

**When to use:** Organizations managing many repos, where individual tokens are impractical or against policy. App tokens auto-rotate and provide audit trails.

:::tip GitHub Enterprise Server
Set `apiBaseURL` to your GitHub Enterprise API endpoint (e.g., `https://github.example.com/api/v3`). Defaults to `https://api.github.com` when omitted.
:::

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Auth method comparison

| Method | Protocol | Scope | Rotation | Agent credential |
|--------|----------|-------|----------|-----------------|
| Token | HTTPS | Per-token | Manual | Mounted Secret |
| SSH key | SSH | Per-repo (deploy key) | Manual | Mounted Secret |
| GitHub App | HTTPS | Per-installation | Automatic (1hr) | ConfigMap token (no Secret mount) |

## Next steps

- [GatewaySync CR Reference](../reference/gatewaysync-cr.md#specgitauth) — full auth field reference
- [Multi-Gateway Profiles](./multi-gateway.md) — route different gateways to different repo paths

Commit message:

feat: v0.4.0 content templating, vars defaults, PodName, GitHub App token Secret (#82)
* add content templating, vars defaults, PodName, and GitHub App token Secret

- template: true on SyncMapping resolves Go template vars in file contents at sync
  time; binary files (null bytes) are rejected with a clear error
- vars in spec.sync.defaults shared across all profiles; profile vars override
  per-key using maps.Copy merge semantics
- {{.PodName}} added to TemplateContext for StatefulSet replica identity
- GitHub App installation token written to controller-managed Secret
  (stoker-github-token-{crName}) instead of ConfigMap; webhook mounts it
  into agent pods at /etc/stoker/git-token/token
- docs: add content-templating and multi-site-deployment guides; update
  multi-gateway, CR reference, roadmap, and troubleshooting

* fix webhook test: update GitHubApp assertions for token Secret mount

* add JSON patches: per-mapping sjson field updates with glob + type inference

* fix: extract dir/file constants to satisfy goconst lint

* docs: add JSON patches guide and update reference docs

* fix re-sync on profile change, add v0.4.0 docs

- agent re-syncs when CR profiles change without a new git commit;
  tracks lastSyncedProfiles alongside lastSyncedCommit in syncOnce
- add content-templating, json-patches, multi-site-deployment guides
  to sidebar navigation
- add v0.4.0 changelog entry covering all PR #82 features and the fix
- correct GitHub App token delivery description (Secret, not ConfigMap)
  in gatewaysync-cr.md, git-authentication.md, and comparison table
- fix multi-site checklist: namespace label only required with requireLabel=true
- add content templating and JSON patches to README features list

* clean up roadmap: move unfinished v0.4.0 items to v0.5.0

---------

Co-authored-by: Eric Knorr <eknorr@ia.io>

docs/docs/guides/git-authentication.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Git Authentication
description: Configure token, SSH, or GitHub App authentication for private repositories.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Git Authentication

Stoker supports three authentication methods for private Git repositories. Public repositories need no auth configuration — just set `spec.git.repo` and `spec.git.ref`.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="token" label="Token" default>

## Token authentication

Use a personal access token (classic or fine-grained) for HTTPS repositories. This is the simplest method for GitHub, GitLab, and Bitbucket.

Create a secret containing the token:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic git-token -n <namespace> \
  --from-literal=token=ghp_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
```

Reference it in the GatewaySync CR:

```yaml
apiVersion: stoker.io/v1alpha1
kind: GatewaySync
metadata:
  name: my-sync
  namespace: my-namespace
spec:
  git:
    repo: "https://github.com/org/private-repo.git"
    ref: "main"
    auth:
      token:
        secretRef:
          name: git-token
          key: token
  # ... gateway, sync config
```

**When to use:** Quick setup, CI-generated tokens, or when SSH is blocked by network policy.

:::tip Fine-grained tokens
GitHub fine-grained tokens let you scope access to a single repository with read-only permissions. This is the recommended approach for production.
:::

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ssh" label="SSH Key">

## SSH key authentication

Use an SSH key for repositories accessed via `git@` URLs.

Generate a deploy key:

```bash
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -f stoker-deploy-key -N "" -C "stoker"
```

Add the public key (`stoker-deploy-key.pub`) as a read-only deploy key in your repository settings.

Create a secret from the private key:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic ssh-key -n <namespace> \
  --from-file=id_ed25519=stoker-deploy-key
```

Reference it in the GatewaySync CR:

```yaml
apiVersion: stoker.io/v1alpha1
kind: GatewaySync
metadata:
  name: my-sync
  namespace: my-namespace
spec:
  git:
    repo: "git@github.com:org/private-repo.git"
    ref: "main"
    auth:
      sshKey:
        secretRef:
          name: ssh-key
          key: id_ed25519
  # ... gateway, sync config
```

**When to use:** Organizations that prefer SSH-based access or need deploy keys scoped to individual repositories.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="github-app" label="GitHub App">

## GitHub App authentication

Use a GitHub App for fine-grained, organization-wide access without personal tokens.

### Setup

1. [Create a GitHub App](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps) with **Contents: Read** permission
2. Install the app on the repository (or organization)
3. Note the **App ID** and **Installation ID** from the app settings
4. Generate a private key and download the PEM file

Create a secret from the PEM key:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic github-app-key -n <namespace> \
  --from-file=private-key.pem=your-app-key.pem
```

Reference it in the GatewaySync CR:

```yaml
apiVersion: stoker.io/v1alpha1
kind: GatewaySync
metadata:
  name: my-sync
  namespace: my-namespace
spec:
  git:
    repo: "https://github.com/org/private-repo.git"
    ref: "main"
    auth:
      githubApp:
        appId: 12345
        installationId: 67890
        privateKeySecretRef:
          name: github-app-key
          key: private-key.pem
        # apiBaseURL: "https://github.example.com/api/v3"  # GitHub Enterprise only
  # ... gateway, sync config
```

**How it works:** The controller exchanges the PEM private key for a short-lived installation access token (1-hour expiry) via the GitHub API, caches it with a 5-minute pre-expiry refresh, and writes it to a controller-managed Secret (`stoker-github-token-{crName}`). The agent mounts this Secret to authenticate git operations. The PEM key never leaves the controller namespace — agent pods do not mount the PEM secret.

**When to use:** Organizations managing many repos, where individual tokens are impractical or against policy. App tokens auto-rotate and provide audit trails.

:::tip GitHub Enterprise Server
Set `apiBaseURL` to your GitHub Enterprise API endpoint (e.g., `https://github.example.com/api/v3`). Defaults to `https://api.github.com` when omitted.
:::

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Auth method comparison

| Method | Protocol | Scope | Rotation | Agent credential |
|--------|----------|-------|----------|-----------------|
| Token | HTTPS | Per-token | Manual | Mounted Secret |
| SSH key | SSH | Per-repo (deploy key) | Manual | Mounted Secret |
| GitHub App | HTTPS | Per-installation | Automatic (1hr) | Controller-managed Secret (PEM never mounted) |

## Next steps

- [GatewaySync CR Reference](../reference/gatewaysync-cr.md#specgitauth) — full auth field reference
- [Multi-Gateway Profiles](./multi-gateway.md) — route different gateways to different repo paths
